Valkey-swift 1.0 announcement (#500)
valkey-io/valkey-io.github.io: content/blog/2026-04-22-valkey-swift-1.0/index.md

+++

> title= "Valkey-swift - Announcing 1.0 Release "

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title= "Valkey-swift - Announcing 1.0 Release"
```

description = "We are excited to announce the 1.0 release of valkey-swift, a client library for Valkey written in Swift."
date= 2026-04-22 00:00:00
authors= [ "adamfowler", "nilanshusharma"]

[taxonomies]
blog_type = ["Announcements"]
[extra]
featured_image = "/assets/media/featured/random-04.webp"
+++

> Last summer, we introduced the preview [release](https://valkey.io/blog/valkey-swift/) of [valkey-swift](https://github.com/valkey-io/valkey-swift). This 1.0 release delivers a production-ready client with stable APIs that takes full advantage of all the modern features of Swift 6.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Last summer, we [introduced the preview release](https://valkey.io/blog/valkey-swift/) of [valkey-swift](https://github.com/valkey-io/valkey-swift). This 1.0 release delivers a production-ready client with stable APIs that takes full advantage of all the modern features of Swift 6.
```

> Last summer, we introduced the preview [release](https://valkey.io/blog/valkey-swift/) of [valkey-swift](https://github.com/valkey-io/valkey-swift). With this 1.0 release, there is now a production ready client with stable APIs that takes full advantage of all the modern features of Swift 6.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Last summer, we introduced the preview [release](https://valkey.io/blog/valkey-swift/) of [valkey-swift](https://github.com/valkey-io/valkey-swift). This 1.0 release delivers a production-ready client with stable APIs that takes full advantage of all the modern features of Swift 6.
```

Reword from existential/passive construction to active voice

## Introduction

> Valkey-swift is a production-grade Swift client built with modern Swift features in mind. Using Valkey with Swift provides strongly typed APIs with clean semantics, memory-safety and data-race-safety guarantees, and a very light memory footprint. The API uses Swift's structured concurrency — a paradigm designed to bring clarity to concurrent programming by using the structure of your code to automatically define the lifetimes of tasks and associated resources. This allows you to write clean concurrent code without worrying about its side effects like race conditions and connection leaks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Valkey-swift is a production-grade Swift client built with modern Swift features in mind. Using Valkey with Swift provides strongly typed APIs with clean semantics, memory-safety and data-race-safety guarantees, and a very light memory footprint. The client API uses Swift's structured concurrency — a paradigm designed to bring clarity to concurrent programming by using the structure of your code to automatically define the lifetimes of tasks and associated resources. This allows you to write clean concurrent code without worrying about its side effects like race conditions and connection leaks.
```

> Valkey-swift is a production-grade Swift client built with modern Swift features in mind. Using Valkey with Swift provides you strongly typed APIs with clean semantics, memory and data race safety guarantees, and a very light memory footprint. The API uses Swift's structured concurrency - a paradigm designed to bring clarity to concurrent programming by using the structure of your code to automatically define the lifetimes of tasks and associated resources. This allows you to write clean concurrent code without worrying about its side-effects like race conditions and connection leaks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Valkey-swift is a production-grade Swift client built with modern Swift features in mind. Using Valkey with Swift provides strongly typed APIs with clean semantics, memory-safety and data-race-safety guarantees, and a very light memory footprint. The API uses Swift's structured concurrency — a paradigm designed to bring clarity to concurrent programming by using the structure of your code to automatically define the lifetimes of tasks and associated resources. This allows you to write clean concurrent code without worrying about its side effects like race conditions and connection leaks.
```

Rework with emdash for the follow on thought, using hyphens to make it clear both memory and data race safety are applied, and adjusted the first sentence to drop the "you" which make the opening sentence a little awkward to me.

> ## Features

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Core Features
```

> Features included in our preview release of valkey-swift:

Reviewer 2: Would recommend this section be framed around core features vs features that were included in the preview release. I assume these are largely the same, but framing the content this way may be clarifying for the reader who is looking to understand what's included in the 1.0 release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
valkey-swift includes these core features:
```

Author: The point of this section was to detail what was in the preview release and what has been done since

Reviewer 2: I understand. One challenge is that this introduces a past release before talking about what's actually in the 1.0 -- which can be confusing. Most readers will be unaware of the preview release and its scope.

One idea would be to frame this section "Core Features" so it's clear to a reader that these are existing features. If someone just scans the post (as many people do), they've read the essential info about its scope.

If that route was pursued, a simpler edit could keep this sentence framed around the preview. Something like: "valkey-swift has included these core features since our [preview release in August 2025](https://valkey.io/blog/valkey-swift/)."

Would that work?

Author: Updated to "valkey-swift has included these core features since our preview release in August 2025.". I removed the link though as we already link to the preview release blog further up.

Reviewer 2: LGTM!

> Features included in our preview release of valkey-swift included:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Features included in our preview release of valkey-swift:
```

> - Supporting all the available Valkey commands. Using custom code generation tools we ensure that we are always up to date with the latest set of commands that Valkey offers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Support for all available Valkey commands. Custom code generation tools keep us in sync with the latest commands that Valkey offers.
```

> - Supporting all the available Valkey commands. Using custom code generation tools we ensure that we are always up to date with latest set of commands offered by Valkey.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Supporting all the available Valkey commands. Using custom code generation tools we ensure that we are always up to date with the latest set of commands that Valkey offers.
```

missing article (the) and reworked to active voice

> - Cluster-Mode compatible client with cluster-aware routing, dynamic topology discovery and handling cluster MOVED redirections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Cluster-mode-compatible client with cluster-aware routing, dynamic topology discovery, and handling cluster MOVED redirections.
```

I didn't think Cluster-Mode was a proper noun, so I suggest hyphenating for consistency. Also missing Oxford comma

- Command pipelining to improve performance by batching multiple commands in a single request and connection.

> - Publish and subscribe to message queues by running multiple subscriptions on a single connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Support for publish and subscribe to message queues by running multiple subscriptions on a single connection.
```

(read as imperative previously, this makes it more clear as a feature)

> - Connection Pooling for performance and resiliency with support for connections over TLS for end-to-end encryption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Connection pooling for performance and resilience with support for connections over TLS for end-to-end encryption.
```

> - Support for Valkey Modules - valkey-bloom, valkey-json.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Support for Valkey Modules: valkey-bloom, valkey-json.
```

> ## What's New 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## What's New in valkey-swift 1.0
```

> Since the preview release we have made significant improvements to the cluster client. Cluster mode error handling is now more robust, with seamless support for ASK and MOVED redirections, and TRYAGAIN errors. Downtime during failovers and connection loss has been drastically dropped from 30 seconds to under 2 seconds. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the preview release, we have made significant improvements to the cluster client. Cluster mode error handling is now more robust, with seamless support for ASK and MOVED redirections, and TRYAGAIN errors. We reduced downtime during failovers and connection loss from 30 seconds to under 2 seconds. 
```

rewrite to active voice, and dropped "drastically" which seemed redundant to the numbers provided

> The cluster client also now has feature parity with the standard client. Cluster client supports cluster-level pipelines and transactions by splitting pipelines across correct shards, so the user doesn't have to worry about the location of their keys. We have also improved subscription connection management wherein both the standalone and the cluster client now allocate a single shared connection for all subscriptions instead of allocating a connection for each subscription.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The cluster client also now has feature parity with the standard client. It supports cluster-level pipelines and transactions by splitting pipelines across the correct shards, so you don't have to worry about the location of their keys. We have also improved subscription connection management where both the standalone and the cluster client now allocate a single shared connection for all subscriptions instead of allocating a connection for each subscription.
```

Added missing article, reduced redundancy in "The cluster client" and replaced "wherein" which is a smidge archaic these days

> Finally, both standalone and cluster clients support reading from replicas for scaling reads. Currently we only support round-robin based replica selection, but we intend to extend this to include latency and az-aware methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, both standalone and cluster clients support reading from replicas for scaling reads. Currently, we only support round-robin-based replica selection, but we intend to extend this to include latency aware and AZ-aware methods.
```

Other improvements in version 1.0 include:
- Support for new commands from Valkey 9.0.
- Support for distributed tracing.
- Dynamic command pipelines defined at runtime. Previously a series of pipelined commands could only be defined at compile time.
- Client configuration for accessing a numbered database.
- Support for the Valkey module valkey-search.

## What’s Next 

> Valkey-swift is constantly adding new features. Upcoming features include: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Valkey-swift is constantly adding new features. Planned features include: 
```

> - Sentinel Mode Support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Sentinel mode support.
```

> - Cluster wide multi-key commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Cluster-wide multi-key commands.
```

> - Integration with the Swift package swift-metrics.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Integration with the Swift package [swift-metrics](https://github.com/apple/swift-metrics/).
```

- And much more!

## Contributing

> Valkey-swift is open source under the Apache 2.0 license and contributions are welcome - bug reports, feature requests, and pull requests. Check out open [issues](https://github.com/valkey-io/valkey-swift/issues) on github for a good starting point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Valkey-swift is open source under the Apache 2.0 license, and contributions are welcome — bug reports, feature requests, and pull requests. Check out open [issues](https://github.com/valkey-io/valkey-swift/issues) on GitHub for a good starting point.
```

+++
title= "valkey-swift - Announcing 1.0 Release "

> description = "We are now excited to announce the 1.0 release of valkey-swift, a client library for Valkey written in Swift."

Reviewer 3: omit "now"

> description = "We are now excited to announce the 1.0 release of valkey-swift, a client library for Valkey written in Swift."

Reviewer 3: I’d recommend keeping the capitalization consistent—either sentence case or proper case throughout.

Reviewer 3: I see it as sentence case for "valkey-swift" yet proper case when alone as "Swift". Not sure if intentional

Author: valkey-swift is the name of the repo, but Swift the language tends to always get capitalized. See swift.org blog posts

> description = "We are now excited to announce the 1.0 release of valkey-swift, a client library for Valkey written in Swift."

Reviewer 3: Please see this google doc for edit suggestions https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EV_QsQtofFOdmAK7IhX2x-k6ZgdrHaXickDs1w4Gb30/edit?tab=t.0

Author: Thanks for this @crystalphamLF I've introduced most of your suggestions

authors= [ "adamfowler", "nilanshusharma"]

[taxonomies]
blog_type = ["Announcements"]
[extra]
featured_image = "/assets/media/featured/random-04.webp"
+++
In this previous [article](https://valkey.io/blog/valkey-swift/) we introduced the preview release of [valkey-swift](https://github.com/valkey-io/valkey-swift). We are now excited to announce the 1.0 release of valkey-swift, a client library for Valkey written in Swift.

## Introduction

Valkey-swift is a production-grade Swift client built with modern Swift features in mind. Using Valkey with Swift provides you strongly typed APIs with clean semantics, memory and data race safety guarantees, and a very light memory footprint. The API uses Swift's structured concurrency - a paradigm designed to bring clarity to concurrent programming by using the structure of your code to automatically define the lifetimes of tasks and associated resources. This allows you to write clean concurrent code without worrying about its side-effects like race conditions and connection leaks.

The release of v1.0 means there is now a production ready client with stable APIs that takes full advantage of all the modern features of Swift 6.

## Features

> In the previous post we mentioned the feature set of the client which included:

Reviewer 3: add comma - "In the previous post, we...."

- Support for Valkey Modules - valkey-bloom, valkey-json.

## What's New 

We have made significant improvements to the cluster client. Cluster mode error handling is now more robust, with seamless support for ASK and MOVED redirections, and TRYAGAIN errors. Downtime during failovers and connection loss has been drastically dropped from 30 seconds to under 2 seconds. 

We have also brought the cluster client to have feature parity with the standard client. Cluster client now supports cluster-level pipelines and transactions by splitting pipelines across correct shards, so the user doesn't have to worry about the location of their keys. We have also improved subscription connection management wherein both the standalone and the cluster client now allocate a single shared connection for all subscriptions instead of allocating a connection for each subscription.

Finally, both standalone and cluster clients now support reading from replicas for scaling reads. Currently we only support round-robin based replica selection, but we intend to extend this to include latency and az-aware methods.

Other improvements included in version 1.0 include:

> - Support for new commands from Valkey 9.0

Reviewer 3: add periods.

- Support for distributed tracing
- Dynamic command pipelines defined at runtime. Previously a series of pipelined commands could only be defined at compile time
- Client configuration for accessing a numbered database
- Support for the Valkey module valkey-search

## What’s Next 

valkey-swift is constantly adding new features. Upcoming features include: 

* Sentinel Mode Support 
* Cluster wide multi-key commands
* Integration with the Swift package swift-metrics

> * And much more!

Reviewer 3: add periods - keep style consistent with the rest
